### Last Entries



To obtain the NMHV last entry condition, we need calculate the $\mathrm{d}^{2\vert 3} \mathcal{Z}_{n+1}$ integration for all possible N$^{2}$MHV Yangian invariants. The N$^{2}$MHV Yangian invariants have been classified and there are 14 classes of them. which you can be found in the book. Just note that the first 13 classes are rational. The d$^{2|3}\mathcal{Z}_{n+1}$ integration can be performed as in the NMHV case which did in the original $\bar{Q}$ paper. While the last class need a special attention. This kind of Yangian invariants contains square roots and hence is algebraic. How to deal with these Yangian invariants will be the main theme of this talk. For now, let me just spell out the last entries obtained from N$^{2}$MHV Yangian invariants. 

Taking the cyclicity into account. There are 3 different classes of NMHV last entries: the first is just  MHV last entries multiplied by an arbitrary R-invariants. While in the second and third classes, the arguments of  $\bar{Q}\log$ involves the intersections of momentum twistors. These intersection are not arbitrary, they respect planarity in some sense. Furthermore, in these two classes, the associated R invariants are fixed, they must share the same particles with the intersections. 

### Algebraic letters and words in two-loop NMHV amplitudes.



 To compute the 2-loop NMHV n-point amplitudes, we need  the one-loop N$^{2}$MHV amplitudes as the input. which can be obtained from the chiral or the scalar box expansion. We need to regulate some integrals in this expansion to deal with the infrared divergence, here we use the DCI regularization scheme. Then, the scalar box expansion for the BDS-normalized amplitude can be written in the following form, where $f_{a,b,c,d}$ are the box coefficients for N^{2}MHV amplitudes and hence  are linear combinations of N$^{2}$MHV Yangian invariants mentioned above, $f^{\text{MHV}}$ are MHV leading singularities, which are either 0 or 1. the infrared divergence in box integrals are canceled , hence only finite parts remain, and they are some weight-2 polylog

In the box expansion, the most generic terms are four mass box, where each corner involves more than 1 particles and hence are massive. To describe this boxes, we introduce $u$,$v$, and in particular this square root $\Delta$. For this box, the box coefficient is exactly the last Yangian invariant we mentioned above, here  we give the explicit formula, and the box integral is a simple weight-2 polylog which depends on $z$ and $\bar{z}$  here $\alpha$ and $\delta$ are solutions of this Schubert problem, and again the solutions will contain  this square root $\Delta$. 

However, for any degenerated box, that means one or more mass corner becomes massless, the square root will disappear, since one of $u$ and $v$ will vanish. For these boxes, the $\mathrm{d}^{2\vert 3}\mathcal{Z}_{n+1}$ integration can be performed without any obstacle. 

So from now on, we will focus on these four-mass box: Recall that the $\mathrm{d}^{2\vert 3}\mathcal{Z}_{n+1}$ integration contains a fermionic integral over $\chi_{n+1}$, that means one of eight legs (a-1,a),...,(d-1,d) must be $n{+}1$, otherwise this fermionic integration gives 0, the   $\mathrm{d}^{2\vert 3}\mathcal{Z}_{n+1}$ integration also contains a contour integral around $\epsilon=0$, that means the box must become singular under the colinear limit, otherwise this contour integral gives 0. 

All in all, only two kinds of 4-mass boxes have contributions. one is $f_{a,b,c,n+1}$ and the other is $f_{1,b,c,n}$, however, only the first kinds is is an obstacle. since under the collinear limit, the square root $\Delta_{1,b,c,n}$ becomes 1-u which is not a square root any more. While the second kinds of square root $\Delta_{a,b,c,n+1}$ will becomes a square root of a quadratic polynomial in $\tau$. Mathematicians have already known how to handle with such square roots for centuries,  This is a very classical problem to find a rational parameterization of a quadratic curve, the upshot is to find a rational point of this curve, once the rational point is found, you can find the solution to this problem in wikipedia,  

For our cases, once you write down the explicit expression for A,B, and C, you can easily find the rational points and hence the rationalize parameterization $t(\tau)$. Using this variable substitution, the $\tau$-integrand becomes a rational function of $t$, while the integration region now involve algebraic quantity $\Delta$. Even so, the result after this variable substitution and the 1-D integrations is too lengthy to be written down in fewer slides. But we do find both the algebraic letters and algebraic words follow a simple pattern. Let me spell the algebraic letters first:

At the end, we find that $\tau$-integrals for four-mass box will introduce a cyclic seed of new algebraic letters of the form, with 6 choices of $x_{\ast}$, note that when $x_{\ast}$ take zero, these algebraic letters will reduce to the algebraic letter appearing one-loop, all these new algebraic letters always enter the symbol in the following combinations

Here I briefly comment on these algebraic letters which can not be obtained from the Landau analysis. these letters can be rewritten as such standard form, Unlike rational ones, such letter indicates two kind of cuts: One arise from the discriminant, and the other arise from b goes to zero which is the same as the cut of log b. Landau equation tell us b must belong to 180 rational ones, and we have checked it indeed is this case. but  landau equation can not tell us what a is.



Finally let me comment on a cross check with Feynman integral computation. The simplest component of our result, the coefficient of $\chi_{1}\chi_{3}\chi_{5}\chi_{7}$. In our basis, the symbol  of this component has the minimal size and completely free of algebraic letters. This component correspond to the difference of two Feynman integrals.  each integral  depend on many algebraic letters, but the difference is free of algebraic letter. And their result are agree with our result.